Ji 39 chef UI (#23)
Junkfood-dk/JunkFoodAdmin: adr/Dish-posting-state-handeling.md

## Approach to state management for Dish posting

This ADR serves the role as to clarify the decisions made, in regards to state management for the part of the Admin app that handles dish posting.

### Why use provider?

The decision to use provider over Stateful widgets or another approach, is based upon the facts that:

- It is a recomended and well supported approach.
- It simplifies code by centralizing state logic.
- It allows for good seperation of concerns and high reusability.

These attributes makes for a great and scalable state management system, that subjectivly speaking is easy to use.

### Implementation

> The current implementation consits of two models, [DishModel](../lib/model/dish_model.dart) and [DishOfTheDayModel](../lib/model/dish_of_the_day_model.dart). The DishModel is not in realtion to provider, but acts as the applications implementaion of the dish model. It has a set of helper functions, that respecitvetly parses from and to JSON objects, postable to the DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current implementation consits of two models, [DishModel](../lib/model/dish_model.dart) and [DishOfTheDayModel](../lib/model/dish_of_the_day_model.dart). The DishModel is not in relation to provider, but acts as the applications implementation of the dish model. It has a set of helper functions, that respectively parses from and to JSON objects, postable to the DB.
```

The DishOfTheDayModel acts as an example of a ChangeNotifier, providing the applicaiton with some functions for interacting with the dish of the day. It can post a new dish of the day, or check whether of not there already is one. The smart thing here is, that with the function `notifyListeners()` we can update all Consumers (subscribers) listening on the DishOfTheDayModel, that a change has been made, and while having full control over when this is done. Further we can place these Consumers as low as needed in the widget tree, limiting implications of the rebuild.

### Internal state handeling

When working with forms or other widgets that need some way of tracking their own internal state, provider is also helpful. Take [PostDishPage](../lib/pages/post_dish_page.dart) as an example. Here we have a ChangeNotifier class, that much like a StateFul widget, stores infromation about the state, and updates the UI accordingly. The pros with the provider approach having less boilerplate code.

### Choices made in regards to DishOfTheDayModel

Looking at [DishOfTheDayModel](../lib/model/dish_of_the_day_model.dart) there are some design choices that may need some clarification.

> The reason only `fetchDishOfTheDay()` notifies listeners, is as to keep one single source of truth. When we post a new dish, it is the database that should hold information about the dish of the day, not the program itself. Say the DB lost the request, well then the program might wrongfully have updated internal dish of the day, without relfecting this amoung all subscribers. Therefore we must get the dish of the day directly from the db, and only then update the internal state. Notice, the getter for the dish of the day boolean, currently only updates when there is no DishOfTheDay at all, meaning that if the day changes, one might have the wrong dish of the day (og the application has not been reloaded). This tradeoff has been made, to lower the number of db calls.

Reviewer 2: og -> or, in line 27

Author: ty

> The reason only `fetchDishOfTheDay()` notifies listeners, is as to keep one single source of truth. When we post a new dish, it is the database that should hold information about the dish of the day, not the program itself. Say the DB lost the request, well then the program might wrongfully have updated internal dish of the day, without relfecting this amoung all subscribers. Therefore we must get the dish of the day directly from the db, and only then update the internal state. Notice, the getter for the dish of the day boolean, currently only updates when there is no DishOfTheDay at all, meaning that if the day changes, one might have the wrong dish of the day (og the application has not been reloaded). This tradeoff has been made, to lower the number of db calls.

Reviewer 2: Kunne man ikke sætte the dish of the day boolean til false kl 21.00 hver dag? Så undergår man at der er nogen der bare kigger på deres telefon og tænker, "nå der er kylling, det fik vi da også igår, nå... whatever". og så ikke refresher siden, men bliver meget forvirret når de så kommer frem og ser at der er gris?

Author: Yeah that would be a good idea, will do
